Version 1.0.0--April 08, 2016

This is a patrolling field manual for the army. Everything here is derived from several different field manuals. (Probably mostly Canadian)

Introduction

A patrol is a detachment send out from a unit to perform an assigned mission of reconnaissance or combat or a combination of both. Patrols will vary in size from as little as three personnel, up to a company in strength. Patrolling is carried out by day and by night, in all types of operations.

The Aims of Patrolling

To gain and maintain the initiative
-If patrols dominate the ground in the area of opposing defended localities, the enemy loses the initiative and is contained largely within his own positions. A successful patrol programme gives freedom of action in the area, raises the morale of troops and enhances security. A patrol should not be deployed unless absolutely necessary.

To gain information
-This may be related to one of the following:
(a)The enemy- Strength, location, disposition, identification, state of defences, habits, early warning of his intention.
(b)The Ground - Going for vehicles and infantry, obstacles, for and ice recess, bridge classification and map corrections

To Deny Information to Enemy Patrols
-This may include information on:
(a) disposition, strength, intention, state of defence; and
(b)approaches to position and obstacles

To Harass the Enemy
-The aim is to maintain pressure on the enemy, deny him rest and lower his morale.

To provide security
-Patrols may be used:
(a) To ensure the area immediately outside friendly localities is clear of enemy and that there has been unsuspected build up close to the position;
(b) to check that minefields, wire or warning devices have not been tampered with;
(c) to maintain contact with flanking units and sub-units;
(d) to cover the gaps between units, installations, and controlled areas and to prevent the enemy from infiltrating and forming up for an attack;
(e) to give early warning of enemy approach and to deny penetration; and
(f) to give flank protection, especially during mobile operations

To provide Protection
-Patrols may:
(a) escort specialist and reconnaissance parties, such as: the engineers confirming sites for a river crossing; and
(b) be used in conjunction with a larger security force, I.E. provide protection of assault positions, attack positions or to protect parties with special duties, I.E. wiring, mine laying or obstacle preparation.

The Patrolling Spirit
-In order to develop the proper patrolling spirit, particular attention must be paid to:
(a) maintaining enthusiasm and cheerfulness, especially under difficult conditions;
(b) determination to complete the task;
(c) development of individual initiative and self-reliance;
(d) comradeship and teamwork; and
(e) maintaining a high personal standard of weapons handling and fieldcraft

-A patrolman must be a highly skilled and well-trained infantryman. He must be able to:
(a) move quickly across any type of country, independent of roads;
(b) be prepared to fight by day or by night equally well; and
(c) be capable of working as a member of a small group or as an individual
